.. warning::

   This is a beta version of Renga
     This platform is a (very early) beta version. It is made available to early adopters only for the purpose of getting acquainted
     with the APIs. THIS VERSION IS NOT INTENDED TO BE USED IN PRODUCTION MODE OR WITH SENSITIVE DATA. In this first version we put the focus
     on the knowledge representation, data lineage, data versioning, meta-data exploration, application deployments, storage, resource management,
     and authentication. The component that will fulfill the above vision of the platform are in place, however it also includes several
     place holders. Most notably the permission management policies will be available only in
     the next release of the platform, which is planned for Q1 2018. Even thought the enforcement methods of the permission policies
     are in place, the only available policy in this version is *full access to everything for all*. In addition, this being a beta version,
     the code and default configurations has not been edited for security vulnerabilities.
     We provide no guarantee whatsoever about the security of the data stored on this platform.

.. _renga_introduction:

Introduction
============


.. epigraph::

   **Renga** (連歌), *plural* **renga**, *a genre of Japanese linked-verse poetry in which two or more poets supply alternating sections of a poem linked by verbal and thematic associations.*

   -- Encyclopædia Britannica

**Renga** is a highly-scalable & secure open software platform designed to foster
multidisciplinary data (science) collaboration across mutually untrusted
academic and industrial institutions.

The platform allows (data)scientists to:

* Securely manage, share and process large-scale data across untrusted parties operating in a federated environment.
* Automatically capture complete lineage up to original raw data for detailed traceability, auditability & reproducibility.

Philosophy
----------

As in the traditional art form of renga from which it borrows its name, the
platform encourages the interdisciplinary cooperation (or coopetition) between
data scientists to advance a research agenda through individual leap
contributions.

In the same spirit, **Renga's** philosophy is to mobilize and connect skills
from the data science community, to enhance their collective intelligence, and
to allow the discovery of knowledge without premeditation. From the users’
perspective, it is essentially a digital canvas where data science projects are
constantly conducted and improved, evolving asynchronously into a web of
interwoven data science threads, where the output of one analytics becomes the
input of another.

Under the hood, the platform is governed by a loosely coupled federated model
whose goal is to allow autonomous organizations to unite in order to share
resources without renouncing their authority to manage the resources they own
the way they want.  In this form, it acts as a connected ecosystem of data,
meta-data, analytics, and computing resources. It implements services to
securely investigate data science problems and allows data scientists to
evaluate, compare, and share each other’s methods and results. Participating
organizations interact in a flat hierarchy where mutual trust between different
administrative domains or a central authority is avoided. They are in full
control of their respective platform services and resources, and manage them
according to their own preferences.

The platform automatically materializes data lineage into a knowledge graph
representation that serves as the basis for traceable and repeatable research.
Data lineage seamlessly capture the workflows both within and across data
science projects, allowing the lineage of any derived data to be unambiguously
traced back to the original raw data sources in a manner that is fully
transparent and traceable. Data lineage is automatically recorded; it includes
the code of intermediate data transforms or data analytics and is designed to
enable the repeatability of research. It is also non-circumventable and tamper-
proof, and thus it can be used for governance, intellectual property
attribution, and audit purposes (e.g. answer the question “who used my data, and
for what purpose”). The knowledge representation also provides a trusted single
view of truth. It is a one-stop shop to a vast collection of digital content
that data scientists can explore to find good quality data they can trust, and
confidently reuse in order to eliminate redundant efforts and accidental data
duplication as much as possible.

History
-------

- 2017.09.19  **Renga** 0.1.0 (Beta) is released to the public, with some of the planned features and all the faults.

- 2017.02.06  Inauguration of the Swiss Data Science Center, design of **Renga** is started.


Disclaimer
----------

THIS SOFTWARE AND ALL ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTATIONS ARE PROVIDED FREE "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE SWISS DATA SCIENCE CENTER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF
THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
